---
Author: pxadmin
contact: dave-russell-graham
heading: Martindale Pharma
heroimg: http://clarity-strategies.github.io/ie-uploads/uploads/studies/Martindale_Banner.jpg
layout: case-study
pub_date: '2012-08-23 00:00:00'
related: null
sectors:
- life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
synopsis: Martindale Pharma - Supplying healthcare professionals worldwide.
thumb: None
url: martindale-pharma
---

<p>Martindale Pharma - Supplying healthcare professionals worldwide.</p><p>Martindale Pharma® is a leading manufacturer and supplier of injectables, ophthalmic drops and ointments, oral solutions and suppositories. The company, which operates from sites at Brentwood and Romford in Essex, markets its products to healthcare professionals in more than 45 countries through a network of local and international business partners.</p><p>From its origins in Essex in the 18th century, Martindale Pharma has grown into a major manufacturer of specialist pharmaceutical products with a portfolio of more than 100 generic drugs and an innovative new product development pipeline.  This commitment to innovation has given the company a leading position in key markets. In the UK, for example, Martindale Pharma is one of the largest manufacturers of methadone, the number one treatment for treating substance addiction.</p><p>The company manufactures the majority of its products in-house with teams responsible for every stage from formulation, to product development, registration and licensing, manufacturing and full quality monitoring and testing. “We employ around 420 people across a very wide range of disciplines,” says Finance Director, Anthony Knight.</p><blockquote><p>“Essex has a good mix of the right skills and experience, so we are able to meet our recruitment needs locally. We also find that the colleges in the area are a good source of apprentices for the future.”</p></blockquote><p>As well as retaining a good skills base, collaboration is also critical to the company’s continued success in the healthcare market, according to Sales Director, Steve Harvey.</p><blockquote><p>“We achieve a high degree of quality, consistency and reliability by working closely with our customers, suppliers and business partners. That means regular meetings with customers and distributors, as well as weekly visits by the executive team to partner companies in Germany and Poland. Having London Stansted Airport so close by makes the journey more convenient. It also makes travel easier for overseas distributor staff attending training courses in the UK.”</p></blockquote><p>The International Business Unit based at the company’s head office in Brentwood supports the global distribution network and is highly experienced in the handling and supply of goods across international boundaries. “We distribute our products by both air and sea,” says Anthony Knight.</p><blockquote><p>“Having two international seaports and an airport in the county gives us good access to our major markets. For UK deliveries, we’re close to major trunk roads and the M25 with links to the national motorway network.”</p></blockquote><p>Looking ahead, Martindale Pharma is planning to expand its product range even further and enter new markets particularly overseas. Essex, with its good skills base and logistics infrastructure, provides the right environment for the company’s ambitious growth targets.</p> <ul class='downloadable-files'><li class='header'>Associated Files</li><li><a alt='' class='btn' href='//clarity-strategies.github.io/ie-uploads/uploads/studies/IE_MartindalePharma.pdf' target='_blank'>IE_MartindalePharma .pdf <span>(199 KB)</span></a></li></ul>