---
Author: pxadmin
contact: robert-edge
heading: Uniserve Group
hero_image: //images-investessex.firebaseapp.com/uploads/studies/Uniserve_banner.jpg
layout: case-study
pub_date: '2012-08-23 00:00:00'
tags:
related: null
sectors:
- uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
synopsis: Uniserve Group - The Essex gateway to a global supply chain.
thumbnail_image: //images-investessex.firebaseapp.com/uploads/studies/Uniserve_Tile.jpg
study_url: uniserve-group
---

<p>Uniserve Group - The Essex gateway to a global supply chain.</p><p>Uniserve Group, with its headquarters at Tilbury in Essex, is the UK’s largest independent freight forwarder, offering clients full door-to-door logistics throughout the world, as well as a range of value-added services from worldwide warehousing to finance and environmental logistics.</p><p>The company, which also has offices at Heathrow, Manchester, Glasgow and Dublin, set up its Essex base at Tilbury Docks in 1984 to handle exports to Australia. From the outset, the company recognised the strategic importance of the county’s international ports and transport links. With access to London Stansted Airport, the deep sea port of Tilbury, nearby Felixstowe and the national motorway network, Uniserve has grown into a global business that currently employs more than 400 staff directly, with a worldwide network of over 40,000 people supporting the supply chains of more than 4000 clients.</p><p>Today, Uniserve’s main focus is on UK retailers and wholesalers, and the company specialises in imports and exports to the Far East and Indian sub-continent by sea and air, where it has an unrivalled depth of regional knowledge through its massive network of local associates. “We also carry a large amount of freight to the rest of the world, and we operate our own daily services into Europe,” says Paul Stone, HR Director.</p><blockquote><p>“Essex is so close to Europe, we can run full trailer and consolidated loads for other hauliers to the continent daily at competitive rates, and we can participate in joint ventures with European companies.”</p></blockquote><p>Uniserve’s Tilbury head office is just minutes from the new London Gateway container port, a £1.5 billion deep sea container port development at a former oil refinery, which is set to become one of the UK’s most important business and distribution hubs, enhancing the economic competitiveness of Essex businesses like Uniserve even further.</p><p>The company makes the most of its proximity to London Stansted Airport. “We’re the only forwarder to have an airside facility,” says Paul Stone.</p><blockquote><p>“Stansted gives us speedy clearance and delivery and that’s a real competitive advantage. In fact, we have been able to deliver to a customer within three hours of the aircraft landing. During peak times, we even charter our own aircraft – that’s almost like having our own airline.”</p></blockquote><p> </p><p>Since its formation, Uniserve’s market share has steadily grown to the point where it is now the leader in its field. “That gives us huge buying power to guarantee space and it means we can offer clients the stability of a multi-national with the flexibility of an independent,” says Paul Stone.</p><blockquote><p>“Our close proximity to London allows us to deal with many international businesses and organisations who recognise the benefits of our strategic location in Essex. The building of the new London Gateway container port will only strengthen this.”</p></blockquote> <ul class='downloadable-files'><li class='header'>Associated Files</li><li><a alt='' class='btn' href='//images-investessex.firebaseapp.com/uploads/studies/IE_Uniserve.pdf' target='_blank'>IE_Uniserve .pdf <span>(376 KB)</span></a></li></ul>