---
Author: pxadmin
contact: david-rooke
heading: Braintree Skyline120
hero_image: http://clarity-strategies.github.io/ie-uploads/uploads/studies/PS_BraintreeSkyline_Banner.jpg
layout: place-study
pub_date: 2012-08-23 00:00:00
related:
- /studies/place-studies/chelmsford-business-park
- /studies/place-studies/colchester-business-park
- /studies/place-studies/earls-colne-business-park
sectors:
- high-technology-cluster
- london-essex-uk-finance-corridor
- life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
- uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
thumbnail_image: None
url: braintree-skyline120
---

<p>Skyline 120 Business Park is located in the centre of the county of Essex in the UK. It offers easy access to deep sea ports, business parks, international airports, road and rail links, and provides businesses with a choice of modern quality warehouse, office and industrial accommodation.</p><p><strong>Bespoke accommodation on a strategically-located site</strong></p><ul><li>Strategic location in the A120 corridor, a key arterial road in the county.</li><li>20 minutes from London Stansted Airport.</li><li>20 minutes from M11 motorway, linking the UK’s south and midlands.</li><li>Less than an hour from east coast and Thames Gateway deep sea ports.</li><li>Home to national and regional players in logistics, manufacturing and retail sectors.</li><li>Adjacent to country park.</li><li>Bespoke design and build accommodation.</li></ul><p><strong>Strategic location</strong></p><p>Skyline 120 Business Park is strategically located on the edge of the town of Braintree within the important A120 corridor. Braintree is less than an hour from London by road, or by rail from nearby mainline stations.</p><p>The Business Park is located on the A120 trunk road that provides easy access to the national motorway network, as well as key business and logistical locations. Location advantages include:</p><ul><li>15 miles from London Stansted Airport with direct access to 150 European destinations and 200 cargo destinations worldwide.</li><li>15 miles from M11 and national motorway network.</li><li>40 miles from the Port of Tilbury, Europe's only specialist ShortSea terminal, handling 120,000 containers each year.</li><li>40 miles from Harwich International Port for fast container access to European markets.</li><li>45 miles from Felixstowe, one of Europe’s largest container ports.</li><li>Convenient access by road to Cambridge (1hour), Birmingham (2 hours 30 minutes) and Manchester (4 hours).</li><li>Main line rail stations at Braintree (2 miles) or Chelmsford (10 miles)</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Businesses in the park</strong></p><p>Skyline 120 is home to a mix of businesses that take advantage of its strategic location. These  include:</p><ul><li>East of England Ambulance Service NHS Trust HART facility (under construction).</li><li>Carillion Energy Services, one of the UK’s largest installers of renewable technologies.</li><li>Coopers of Stortford, a distribution warehouse for a regional home and garden retailer.</li><li>Delamode, headquarters for an international logistics company.</li><li>TR Fastenings, global industrial fastenings company supplying over 150 million components every day.</li></ul><p><strong>Industrial, warehousing and office accommodation</strong></p><p>Skyline 120 provides a modern attractive working environment. It offers bespoke property solutions particularly suited to businesses looking to retain freehold ownership of their real estate. The advantages include:</p><ul><li>High-quality landscaped and masterplanned environment.</li><li>Well specified and designed buildings.</li><li>Wide range of accommodation available to suit all sizes and types of businesses, freehold or leasehold.</li></ul><p><br/>Over 40,000 square metres of warehouse and office space has been developed to date and Nexus, the latest phase of development, will increase the park to over 50,000 square metres. A variety of office space has been developed at Skyline 120, ranging from small office units in a landscaped courtyard environment to larger headquarters buildings.<br/><br/>Nexus provides a range of opportunities for the development of bespoke warehouse and office buildings to suit individual occupiers’ requirements on either a freehold or leasehold basis. Nexus has outline planning permission to provide:</p><ul><li>Variety of warehouse space requirements from 200 to 5,000 square metres.</li><li>Accommodation ranging from small light industrial units to larger distribution warehouses.</li><li>Bespoke office buildings to meet individual occupier requirements from 500 to 5,000 square metres.</li></ul><p><strong>Work/life balance</strong></p><p>Extensive local amenities include a superstore, hotel, neighbourhood shops, pub and day nursery. Freeport shopping village is just a few minutes drive.<br/><br/>The adjoining Country Park includes a cafe, conference facilities, 5-a-side football pitches and recreational areas. Car parking facilities are also available at the Country Park and season tickets can be purchased.<br/><br/><strong>Future developments</strong></p><p>A further extension to the business park is planned on land to the south of the country park. The new site has been allocated by the District Council for development and an outline planning application is due to be submitted shortly.</p>