---
Author: pxadmin
display: true
contact: david-rooke
heading: Chelmsford Business Park
hero_image: //clarity-strategies.github.io/ie-uploads/uploads/studies/PS_ChelmsfordBusinessPark_Banner.jpg
layout: place-study
pub_date: 2012-08-23 00:00:00
related:
- /studies/place-studies/braintree-skyline120
- /studies/place-studies/colchester-business-park
- /studies/place-studies/earls-colne-business-park
sectors:
- high-technology-cluster
- london-essex-uk-finance-corridor
- life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
- uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
thumbnail_image: //clarity-strategies.github.io/ie-uploads/uploads/studies/Chelmsford_Bus_Pk_555x440.jpg
url: chelmsford-business-park
---

<p>Chelmsford Business Park is located in the centre of the county of Essex in the UK. It offers a prestige location in Chelmsford, the UK’s newest city.<br/><br/>The business park offers easy access to key business locations such as deep sea ports, business parks, international airports, road and rail links. It provides businesses with a choice of modern industrial and office accommodation in a low-density landscaped environment.</p><p><strong>Design and build accommodation in a city location</strong></p><ul><li>Strategic location adjacent to the A12 corridor.</li><li>30 minutes from London Stansted Airport.</li><li>35 minutes from M11 motorway.</li><li>Less than an hour from east coast and Thames Gateway deep sea ports.</li><li>Home to national and regional players in financial services, technology, research and specialist manufacturing.</li><li>Close to the amenities of a city. </li><li>Bespoke design and build accommodation.</li></ul><p><strong>Strategic location</strong></p><p>The business park is situated on the eastern edge of the city of Chelmsford, approximately 35 minutes by train from London.</p><p>Chelmsford Business Park is just a few minutes from the A12 trunk road that provides easy access to key business and logistical locations and the national motorway network. Location advantages include:</p><ul><li>30 miles by road from London Stansted Airport with direct access to 150 European destinations and 200 cargo destinations worldwide.</li><li>18 miles by road from M25 and national motorway network.</li><li>28 miles by road from the Port of Tilbury, Europe's only specialist ShortSea terminal, handling 120,000 containers each year.</li><li>45 miles by road from Harwich International Port for fast container access to European markets.</li><li>50 miles by road from Felixstowe, one of Europe’s largest container ports.</li><li>Convenient access by road to Cambridge (1hour 15 minutes), Birmingham (2 hours 30 minutes) and Manchester (4 hours).</li><li>Main line rail station at Chelmsford (2 miles)</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Businesses in the park</strong></p><p>Chelmsford Business Park is home to a mix of successful national, international and regional businesses. These include:</p><ul><li>ebm-Papst UK, the UK headquarters of the world’s leading fan and motor manufacturer.</li><li>IFDS Group, specialised shareholder and investor servicing solutions for the global collective investment industry. </li><li>Clifford Thames Group, a leading edge provider of consultancy and support services to the global automotive industry.</li><li>Barratt Eastern Counties, a leading UK property developer.</li></ul><p><br/>Businesses on the site can benefit from the city’s strong manufacturing and financial services heritage and can draw on the pool of skilled knowledge and administrative workers in the area.<br/><br/>Office and industrial properties</p><p>Chelmsford Business Park has been skillfully and meticulously designed to ensure companies benefit from a first-class development which is regarded as an aspirational work location. The benefits include:</p><ul><li>Only 25 acres (10.11 ha) of the 40 acre (16.19 ha) site allocated for this low density scheme, ensuring each building benefits from a well landscaped environment.</li><li>Masterplan in place for the landscaped site and road and service infrastructure.</li><li>New buildings will be constructed on a design and build basis</li><li>Typical floor areas upwards of 450 square metres with generous car parking standards.</li><li>Masterplan blends different types of building for office, technology, research and development, specialist manufacturing and ancillary storage.</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Work/life balance</strong></p><p>Chelmsford is a highly desirable community with a wide range of quality housing, good shopping facilities in the town centre and nearby Lakeside and Freeport complexes.<br/><br/>The city has well regarded private and state educational establishments and boasts excellent leisure facilities, including golf courses, sailing facilities, private member sports clubs and other recreational amenities.<br/><br/><strong>Future developments</strong></p><p>The completed buildings on the business park reflect the high level of design and specification which form a core part of the development brief for the scheme. This ethos will be carried<br/>forward into the final phases of the development when companies will be able to specify their precise requirements on a design and build basis.</p>