---
heading: Colchester Business Park
url: colchester-business-park
sectors:
  - high-technology-cluster
  - london-essex-uk-finance-corridor
  - life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
  - uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
related:
  - /studies/place-studies/braintree-skyline120
  - /studies/place-studies/chelmsford-business-park
  - /studies/place-studies/earls-colne-business-park 
pubdate: 23/08/2012
Author: pxadmin
thumb: 
heroimg: 'http://investessex.co.uk/uploads/studies/PS_ColchesterBusinessPark_Banner.jpg'
contact: David Rooke
---
 <p>Colchester Business Park is located in the east of the county of Essex in the UK. It provides businesses with a choice of modern, quality office accommodation close to East Anglia's main road network.<br/><br/>The business park has attracted national and international companies through its combination of high-quality buildings, comprehensive park facilities and superb communications infrastructure.</p><p><strong>Quality office accommodation in a parkland environment</strong></p><ul><li>Landscaped park environment.</li><li>Quality office units.</li><li>Home to national and international companies.</li><li>Superb communications facilities.</li><li>50 minutes from international airport.</li><li>Good work-life balance with retail, eating and leisure facilities on site.</li><li>Close to University of Essex Knowledge Gateway.</li></ul><p><strong>Strategic location</strong></p><p>Colchester Business Park is situated on the eastern edge of Colchester, Britain’s oldest recorded town. It is less than an hour from London yet is just a few miles from an area outstanding natural beauty.</p><p>The business park is located directly adjacent to the A12/A120 interchange which provides excellent road links to UK and international markets. Location advantages include:</p><ul><li>40 miles from the M25 and links to the national motorway network. </li><li>40 miles from London Stansted Airport, with direct access to 150 European destinations and 200 cargo destinations worldwide.</li><li>20 miles from Harwich International Port for fast container and ferry access to European markets.</li><li>30 miles from Felixstowe, one of Europe’s largest container ports.</li><li>Convenient access by road to Cambridge (1hour 25 minutes), Birmingham (3 hours) and Manchester (4 hours 20 minutes).</li><li>Fast mainline rail service to London Liverpool Street station, approximately 55 minutes.</li></ul><p><strong>Businesses in the park </strong></p><p>Colchester Business Park is currently home to a mix of businesses and charity organisations. These include:</p><ul><li>Essex County Council, Social Services</li><li>Linklaters, a global law firm</li><li>Ovivo, an international water treatment company</li><li>NatWest Bank</li><li>Care UK Plc - a leading independent provider of health and social care services.</li><li>NHS Primary Care Trust</li><li>Lancaster/Jardine Plc – UK offices of a leading specialist motor group.</li></ul><p><br/>Businesses on the site benefit from the pool of skilled knowledge workers in the area. They can also improve their competitive advantage through proximity to the Essex Knowledge Gateway which is currently under development at the nearby University of Essex. The Knowledge Gateway will provide access to world-class research facilities and the potential for profitable knowledge transfer and collaboration.<br/><br/><strong>Office properties </strong></p><p>The accommodation at Colchester Business Park is designed for professional office users who value excellent traffic links and an attractive, well-managed working environment with convenient parking in an attractive parkland setting. The advantages include:</p><ul><li>Quality of buildings, park facilities and business environment of the highest order.</li><li>Buildings currently on site that can accommodate office requirements from 50 square metres to 1800 square metres.</li><li>Development opportunities to accommodate office requirements up to 5,000 square metres on a design and build basis.</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Work/life balance</strong></p><p>Colchester Business Park provides businesses with a complete range of facilities on site. There is a bar and restaurant offering a full range of catering services for casual and formal dining, full bank facilities and convenience store, as well as a hairdressers and dentist.<br/><br/>Just a short distance from the business park is a network of attractive footpaths and country lanes for walking or jogging to maintain that essential work/life balance.<br/><br/><strong>Future developments</strong></p><p>Phase 3 of the development will cover 14 acres (5.9 hectares) and provide 21,000 square metres of business accommodation. 16,700 square metres is already constructed and occupied.  Outline planning exists on part of the development – 800 The Crescent – which will provide six 200 square metre offices. Detailed planning permission exists on plot 700 The Crescent for offices up to 500 square metres.</p> 