---
Author: pxadmin
display: false
contact: david-rooke
heading: Earls Colne Business Park
hero_image: //clarity-strategies.github.io/ie-uploads/uploads/studies/PS_EarlesColnes_Banner.jpg
layout: place-study
pub_date: 2012-08-23 00:00:00
related:
- /studies/place-studies/braintree-skyline120
- /studies/place-studies/chelmsford-business-park
- /studies/place-studies/colchester-business-park
sectors:
- high-technology-cluster
- london-essex-uk-finance-corridor
- life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
- uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
thumbnail_image: //clarity-strategies.github.io/ie-uploads/uploads/studies/PS_EarlesColnes_Tile.jpg
study_url: earls-colne-business-park
---

<p>Earls Colne Business Park is located in the north of the county of Essex in the UK. It offers easy access to key business locations and provides businesses with a choice of modern industrial and office accommodation. The highly-secure site has won awards for its sympathetic development style and attractive landscaped environment.</p><p><strong>Modern business park in a rural setting</strong></p><ul><li>Attractive working conditions in a landscaped park environment.</li><li>Quality office and industrial units.</li><li>30 minutes by road from international airport and seaports.</li><li>Highly-secure 250 acre site. </li><li>Home to major international, national and regional players in the automotive, communications, construction and food and drink sectors.</li><li>Skilled, committed local workforce.</li><li>Golf course, indoor tennis facilities, fitness centre and hotel on site.</li></ul><p><strong>Strategic location</strong></p><p>Earls Colne Business Park is situated in a rural setting just an hour away from London by road or rail from nearby mainline stations.</p><p>The Business Park is just two minutes from the A120 trunk road that provides easy access to key business and logistical locations and the national motorway network. Location advantages include:</p><ul><li>30 miles from London Stansted Airport with direct access to 150 European destinations and 200 cargo destinations worldwide.</li><li>20 miles from Harwich International Port for fast container access to European markets.</li><li>30 miles from Felixstowe, one of Europe’s largest container ports.</li><li>Convenient access by road to Cambridge (1hour 10 minutes), Birmingham (3 hours 45 minutes) and Manchester (4 hours).</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Businesses in the park </strong></p><p>Earls Colne Business Park is home to a mix of businesses employing around 800 people These include:</p><ul><li>Ford Special Vehicle Preparations, customising Ford vehicles for the emergency services.</li><li>Gigawave, a global provider of specialised television transmission equipment</li><li>Baxters Foods, a leading consumer brand food manufacturer. </li><li>Wilkin and Sons, world-famous manufacturer of preserves.</li><li>Milbank, a manufacturer of innovative pre-cast concrete construction products.</li></ul><p><br/>Companies on the site benefit from the area’s strong manufacturing heritage and skills of the local workforce that has a good work ethic. Employers can also draw on the pool of skilled labour and knowledge workers in nearby urban areas such as Colchester, Halstead and the city of Chelmsford.<br/><br/><strong>Industrial and office properties </strong></p><p>Earls Colne Business Park provides a modern and attractive working environment. Advantages include:</p><ul><li>Industrial and office premises from 250 to 5,000 square metres.</li><li>Business Centre offering smaller businesses flexible accommodation from 200 to 500 square metres </li><li>One of the most secure business sites in the east of England.</li><li>True park setting, with large areas of grass and trees.</li></ul><p><strong>Award winning development</strong></p><p>The business park has recently won Heritage Awards, Business Excellence Awards and an award from Braintree District Council for sympathetic design style. (Dates/details TBC)<br/><br/><strong>Airfield on site</strong></p><p>Earls Colne Business Park has an on-site airfield with customs clearance that is unique to business parks in East Anglia. The airfield is full licensed by the Civil Aviation Authority. Light aircraft are available for charter flights throughout the UK and Europe.<br/><br/><strong>Work/life balance </strong></p><p>Not only is Earls Colne Business Park a great community of businesses with quality units set in beautiful surroundings, it also has great leisure facilities on site. The Essex Golf and Country Club is adjacent to the business park with facilities that include an 18 hole and 9 hole golf course, swimming pool, gymnasium, tennis courts and an indoor tennis centre of excellence.<br/><br/>The business park also borders the Marks Hall Estate, which features a walled garden, ornamental lakes and a huge area of ancient woodland.<br/><br/><strong>Future developments </strong></p><p>Plans are in place to create a Rural Business Unit that will provide local businesses with accommodation from 150 to 400 square metres in a landscaped setting.</p>