---
heading: Harwich International Port
url: harwich-international-port
sectors:
  - uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
  - high-technology-cluster
  - london-essex-uk-finance-corridor
  - life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
related:
  - /studies/place-studies/harwich-international-port
  - /studies/place-studies/london-gateway-port
  - /studies/place-studies/london-southend-airport
  - /studies/place-studies/london-stansted-airport
  - /studies/place-studies/port-of-tilbury 
pubdate:23/08/2012
Author:pxadmin
thumb:
heroimg:'http://investessex.co.uk/uploads/studies/Sunset_over_harwich_940.jpg'
contact:David Rooke
---
 <p>Harwich International Port is located in the east of the county of Essex in the UK. It is one of the UK’s leading multi-purpose freight and passenger ports and offers first class facilities for container and bulk operations.</p><p><strong>Strategically situated for freight and business travel</strong></p><ul><li>One of the UK’s top ten ports.</li><li>Handles over 3.7 million tonnes of freight per year.</li><li>Key port for ro-ro ferries to Scandinavia and Europe.</li><li>Handles new generation of superferries to improve freight and passenger car facilities.</li><li>Part of Haven Ports cluster which handles 40% of UK freight.</li><li>Major supply port for offshore energy sector.</li><li>Less than an hour from London.</li><li>Less than an hour from London Stansted Airport.</li><li>Rail freight facilities within port.</li><li>Excellent road links to A12 trunk road.</li></ul><p><strong>Accessible location </strong></p><p>Harwich International Port provides businesses with easy access to markets in the UK, mainland Europe and the world.</p><p>The port’s advantages include:</p><ul><li>Location in the Haven Gateway Ports cluster, the largest deep sea port cluster in Europe.</li><li>Proximity to English Channel shipping lanes.</li><li>10 miles by road from Felixstowe, UK’s largest container port.</li><li>10 miles by road from Ipswich, the UK’s most important port for grain export.</li><li>50 miles by road from London Stansted Airport with direct access to 200 cargo destinations worldwide.</li><li>2 hours by road from London Heathrow and London Gatwick airports.</li><li>Convenient access by road to Birmingham (2 hours 30 minutes) and Manchester (4 hours).</li><li>Rail freight terminal on site.</li><li>Less than an hour by train from London.</li></ul><blockquote><p>“Essex is an ideal gateway to our global markets. With an international seaport at Harwich we’ve got a choice of freight distribution by air or sea.” John Warner, Chief Executive, Boddingtons</p></blockquote><p><strong>Full range of cargo facilities </strong></p><p>Harwich is one of the UK’s top ten ports, handling over 3.7 million tonnes of freight in 2009. The port’s cutting-edge technology means goods are transported faster and more efficiently, meeting the demand for logistical efficiency and just-in-time deliveries.<br/><br/>Recent investment allows the port to handle a wide range of freight for various business sectors. Key sectors include:</p><ul><li>Vehicles - Secure specialist facilities for import and export of trade vehicles from small cars to combine harvesters. Ford handles large volumes of Focus, Fusion and Fiesta cars from rail wagons and dedicated car carriers.</li><li>Dry bulk goods - One of the UK’s major dry bulk ports for grain, cement, salt, rice and animal feedstuffs.</li><li>Feedstocks - Import and processing of feedstocks to create a range of speciality products for industry.</li><li>Petro-chemicals - Important location for petro-chemical industry, handling a range of hydrocarbons extracted from the North Sea. Half a million tonnes of condensates are distilled every year at the Petrochem Carless refinery sited next to the port.</li></ul><blockquote><p>“We make extensive use of ports such as Harwich to distribute our products to Europe, the Middle East and the Far East.” Paul Wenden, Engineering &amp; Product Management Director, Fläkt Woods</p></blockquote><p><strong>Key location for offshore energy sector </strong></p><p>Harwich International Port is already heavily committed to the offshore renewables sector. The port’s involvement in this sector extends to a growing UK based supply chain and manufacturing sector within the offshore wind industry.<br/><br/>The port first acted as an installation base for the Gunfleet Sands Offshore Wind Farm. Harwich is now involved in the Greater Gabbard project, which, when complete, will boast an array of 140 turbines producing up to 504MW of energy, making it the largest offshore wind farm in the world.<br/><br/><strong>Major business travel and ferry port</strong></p><p>Harwich is the UK’s third largest cruise port, with 126,000 cruise passengers and 1 million ferry passengers passing through each year.<br/><br/>The port carries large volumes of freight and business travellers on regular ro-ro ferries to Scandinavia and Europe as well as accommodating the world’s largest cruise liners.<br/><br/><strong>Planning for future growth </strong></p><p>Harwich is set to expand with the development of Bathside Bay, a £300 million deep-sea container port. This will enable the port to handle multiple deep-sea container vessels making Harwich potentially the second-largest container port in the UK.<br/><br/>Bathside Bay will also increase the capacity of the port as one of the largest hubs for the offshore energy sector, with the potential to be a multifunctional site for advanced manufacturing and high-tech intelligent warehousing.</p><blockquote><p>“It is important that we are able to provide the best infrastructure available to our customers and this will ensure that the port can handle increased freight and motorist volumes efficiently as demand grows in the future.” David Gledhill, chief executive officer of Hutchison Ports UK Ltd</p></blockquote> 