---
Author: pxadmin
display: false
contact: david-rooke
heading: London Southend Airport
hero_image: //images-investessex.firebaseapp.com/uploads/studies/PS_SouthendAirport_Banner.jpg
layout: place-study
pub_date: 2017-04-27 00:00:00
related:
- /studies/place-studies/harwich-international-port
- /studies/place-studies/london-gateway-port
- /studies/place-studies/london-southend-airport
- /studies/place-studies/london-stansted-airport
- /studies/place-studies/port-of-tilbury
sectors:
- high-technology-cluster
- london-essex-uk-finance-corridor
- life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
- uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
tags:
- asset
thumbnail_image: //images-investessex.firebaseapp.com/uploads/studies/Southend_Airport_aerial_555.jpg
study_url: london-southend-airport
---

<p>London Southend Airport is located in the south east of the county of Essex in the UK.  It is a long-established regional airport and the eastern gateway to London, providing excellent access to Europe for business travellers and urgent freight.<br/><br/>The airport has a new passenger terminal, control tower, hotel and train station thanks to a multi-million pound investment and development programme to enhance passenger and freight facilities.</p><p><strong>Strategic regional airport</strong></p><ul><li>Major redevelopment following £100 million investment.</li><li>New passenger terminal, rail station and control tower.</li><li>15 minutes from plane to train.</li><li>Daily flights to Ireland.</li><li>70 European flights a week.</li><li>European airfreight services.</li><li>Collaboration with new London Gateway Port to offer PortCentric locations.</li><li>Capacity to extend European services.</li></ul><p><strong>Convenient accessible location</strong></p><p>London Southend Airport offers important European connections without the congestion and inconvenience of a London location.</p><p>Fast road and rail links make it easy for business travellers and freight operators to reach the airport or save time on their onward journeys to London or regional destinations. Location advantages include:</p><ul><li>40 miles by road from central London.</li><li>5 miles from A127 trunk road to London and national motorway network.</li><li>20 miles by road from major new London Gateway Port.</li><li>30 miles by road from Port of Tilbury.</li><li>35 miles from the major business centre of Canary Wharf, London.</li><li>New rail station on site just 50 minutes from London Liverpool Street.</li><li>Frequent fast train services to Stratford International Station, adjacent to the London 2012 Olympic Village.</li></ul><p><strong>European business travel </strong></p><p>London Southend Airport offers convenient access to Europe. EasyJet provides 70 flights a week to 10 European destinations including Barcelona, Madrid, Milan, Amsterdam, Berlin, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Belfast.  It is also an established base for private executive flight handling.<br/><br/>The airport is just 40 miles from central London. It provides passengers with faster door-to-door times inbound to London than most other London airports, and at lower costs. Advantages for business travelers include:</p><ul><li>Fast, friendly and hassle-free gateway located outside London congestion.</li><li>Southend is clear of the air traffic congestion over much of London.</li><li>Business travellers can save 20 minutes on a journey to or from Europe.</li><li>New railway station enables passengers with hand luggage to get from the plane to the train in just 15 minutes, reducing overall journey time.</li></ul><p>A new £10m airport hotel provides high-quality facilities for airport passengers as well as for local businesses. The Holiday Inn features a variety of conference and banqueting facilities, plus a choice of meeting rooms. The hotel has a magnificent, fully sound-proofed rooftop bar and restaurant.</p><blockquote><p>“Southend Airport is already extremely important to us. Having the attraction of not only the coastal location, but also an airport where people can fly to European destinations, would be a valuable differential.” Paul Hillman, managing director, Olympus KeyMed Group</p></blockquote><p><strong>European airfreight facilities </strong></p><p>London Southend Airport offers freight operators the ease and convenience of operating to and from European destinations at any time of the day or night. Quick aircraft loading and unloading facilities provide invaluable support for local industries, particularly those that depend on just-in-time delivery. Airfreight advantages include:</p><ul><li>Key regional logistics centres in the Thames Gateway less than 30 minutes away.</li><li>Around 2 million consumers living within a 60 minute drive of the airport.</li><li>30 minutes by road from the new London Gateway Port and logistics park providing essential air support for PortCentric businesses.</li><li>Fast access to Europe for urgent airfreight delivery.</li></ul><blockquote><p>“Having key members of the supply chain so close at hand means we can rely on the daily deliveries and quick response times that are essential to our lean procurement policy.”  Mike Skelt, head of manufacturing – medical, Olympus KeyMed Group</p></blockquote><p><strong>Businesses on site</strong></p><p>Southend is a major commercial aircraft maintenance centre. The airport complex boasts over 50 businesses with more than 1,300 people employed across the site. These include:</p><ul><li>ATC Lasham – offering a full range of airframe maintenance services.</li><li>ACL Aviation Support - a global provider of aircraft spares and components for the ATR series of turboprop and the Boeing 737 series of jet aircraft.</li></ul><p><br/>The airport also has a growing commercial and leisure passenger service.  A range of ground handling equipment and cargo storage facilities are available at the airport including a fully racked 5,575 square metre warehouse, cold store, customs bonded compound and trailer park.<br/><br/><strong>Planning for future growth</strong></p><p>The airport has plans to extend the runway by 300 metres, which will allow more modern and quieter aircraft to carry business and leisure passengers to destinations all over Europe and parts of North Africa. The newer, quieter aircraft, which are also more fuel-efficient, will open up new travel and airfreight opportunities for Essex businesses in the future.<br/> <br/>If the extension is approved, the airport will have the capacity for 2 million passengers a year by 2020, (48,000 annually now) and 400,000 business trips per year carrying business passengers to destinations all over Europe.<br/><br/>There are further plans to expand the business park around the airport. A schedule of further development includes bringing new employment, land and facilities for the area’s strong aviation related industries.</p><blockquote><p> </p></blockquote>