---
heading: London Stansted Airport
url: london-stansted-airport
sectors:
  - high-technology-cluster
  - london-essex-uk-finance-corridor
  - life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
  - uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
related:
  - /studies/place-studies/harwich-international-port
  - /studies/place-studies/london-gateway-port
  - /studies/place-studies/london-southend-airport
  - /studies/place-studies/london-stansted-airport
  - /studies/place-studies/port-of-tilbury 
pubdate:17/02/2017
Author:pxadmin
thumb:
heroimg:'http://investessex.co.uk/uploads/studies/PS_StansteadAirport_Banner.jpg'
contact:Robert Edge
---
 <p>London Stansted Airport is located in the west of the county of Essex in the UK. It is the UK’s third busiest airport </p><p>It is the UK’s third largest airport measured by both passenger numbers and cargo throughput serving more than 18 million passengers each year, with access to more than 150 European destinations and handling over  200,000 tonnes of cargo, in the year to the end of September 2012, representing about 13 percent of total U.K. airfreight.</p><p>Some 20 percent of passengers use London Stansted Airport for business travel and it is widely recognised as the most convenient airport for companies based in Essex, London, the Cambridge cluster and the East of England.</p><p><strong>A strategic business asset</strong></p><ul><li>Catalyst for regional growth and productivity.</li><li>Important international connections for regional trade and investment.</li><li>Convenient location for business travellers in the East of England.</li><li>More direct scheduled European flights than any other airport in the world.</li><li>Excellent road and rail links to London and beyond.</li><li>Third largest UK air cargo hub.</li><li>Available capacity to double passenger numbers on existing single runway.</li></ul><p><strong>Convenient accessible location </strong></p><p>London Stansted Airport has all the facilities and connections of other major London terminals, but without the congestion and inconvenience of a London location.</p><p>Fast road and rail links make it easy for business travellers to reach the airport or save time on their onward journeys to London or regional destinations. Location advantages include:</p><ul><li>2 miles by road to M11 with links to the national motorway network.</li><li>40 miles by road from central London.</li><li>Adjacent to A120 trunk road to north Essex and the East Coast</li><li>40 miles by road to South Essex and Thames Gateway.</li><li>Rail station directly below the terminal.</li><li>Stansted Express runs every 15 minutes and reaches London Liverpool Street in 45 minutes.</li><li>Greater Anglia trains run to Stratford International Station, adjacent to the London 2012 Olympic Village.</li></ul><p><br/><strong>International business travel</strong></p><p>Convenient location and excellent connections make London Stansted Airport a key element in an international business strategy. It provides good communications for companies that want to expand their global operations or open a UK or European headquarters in Essex or the East of England.<br/><br/>The airport provides an important gateway to Europe and beyond for different groups of business travellers. These include:</p><ul><li>Business executives visiting multinational locations.</li><li>Sales and service staff visiting customers on urgent business.</li><li>Overseas business travellers visiting companies in the region.</li><li>Private aircraft carrying VIPs or other business travellers.</li></ul><p>To improve convenience for business travellers, the airport has four hotels on site providing business accommodation as well as conference and meeting facilities.</p><blockquote><p>“Gigawave engineers use London Stansted Airport as a convenient departure point of choice for Europe and other countries where the company’s products are used. Stansted is also convenient for customers from partner companies overseas who are visiting Gigawave for product acceptance tests and training courses.” David Earl, Gigawave</p></blockquote><p><strong>Global airfreight facilities </strong></p><p>London Stansted Airport is London’s second largest airport for cargo. Key statistics include;</p><ul><li>Transports over £8 billion worth of cargo every year</li><li>Handles over 200,000 tonnes of freight on over 11,300 flights to more than 200 countries</li><li>Accounts for approximately 13 percent of all UK air freight.</li></ul><p><br/>The airport serves global destinations with connections to key airfreight hubs in Europe, North America, Africa and the Far East. It is home to three BA World Cargo aircraft and the UK base for global logistics company, FedEx.<br/><br/>Aircraft are able to load and unload rapidly, with a potential time from touchdown to truck loading of around two hours.</p><p>“We’re the only forwarder to have an airside facility. It gives us speedy clearance and delivery and that’s a real competitive advantage. In fact, we have been able to deliver into a customer within three hours of the aircraft landing.” David Bush, Uniserve</p><p><strong>Supporting UK and European distribution </strong></p><p>London Stansted Airport offers excellent road and rail links for national distribution and cargo transfers between all major European airports and principal seaports.</p><p>The airport’s logistical advantages include:</p><ul><li>Direct deliveries to airports throughout Europe and to over 200 worldwide destinations.</li><li>Onward cargo can reach the UK’s major distribution centres in the Midlands in just under three hours by road.</li><li>East coast ports of Harwich and Felixstowe are less than an hour away by road.</li><li>Key regional logistics centres in the south of Essex are less than an hour away by road.</li></ul><p> <br/><strong>Capacity for future growth</strong></p><p>London Stansted Airport is already a strategic asset for the economy of Essex and the East of England, providing important facilities for tourism, business travel and airfreight. Not only is it the third largest airport in the UK, it has the headroom to expand as business grows in Essex.<br/><br/>With the space and permission to serve 35 million passengers a year on the existing single runway, London Stansted is currently operating at just 50 percent capacity compared with London Heathrow which has reached 99 percent of its capacity.<br/><br/>The airport has the infrastructure in place to accommodate all types of aircraft from anywhere in the world, including A380s and Boeing 747-8s making it suitable for serving long-haul destinations, as well as the existing short haul operations. The Lord Norman Foster designed airport terminal was built to adapt easily to growing demand and has the capacity to handle increased passenger numbers within its existing facilities.</p> 