---
Author: pxadmin
contact: david-rooke
heading: London Gateway Port
heroimg: http://clarity-strategies.github.io/ie-uploads/uploads/studies/PS_LondonGateway_Banner.jpg
layout: place-study
pub_date: 2017-02-20 00:00:00
related:
- /studies/place-studies/harwich-international-port
- /studies/place-studies/london-gateway-port
- /studies/place-studies/london-southend-airport
- /studies/place-studies/london-stansted-airport
- /studies/place-studies/port-of-tilbury
sectors:
- uk-multimodal-gateway-essex
- high-technology-cluster
- london-essex-uk-finance-corridor
- life-sciences-healthcare-cluster
thumb: None
url: london-gateway-port
---

<p>London Gateway Port is located in the south of the county of Essex in the UK. The port is due for completion in the fourth quarter of 2013 and is part of a £1.5 billion project to build the UK’s first 21st century major multi-modal deep-sea container port and Europe’s largest logistics park.</p><p><strong>Highly-automated multi-modal port and logistics park</strong></p><ul><li>Highly-automated deep sea port.</li><li>Integrated with Europe’s largest logistics park.</li><li>Transforming supply chain management with greener strategy.</li><li>PortCentric approach offers multi-modal logistics solutions on site.</li><li>Rail terminals on site.</li><li>Collaboration with local business air freight facilities.</li><li>Less than one hour by road to London’s international airports.</li><li>Fast road and rail links to 70% of UK population.</li><li>Massive logistics infrastructure.</li></ul><p><strong>Strategic location</strong></p><p>London Gateway Port is located within the Thames Gateway*, only 25 miles from the centre of London and close to key business locations such as Thurrock, Basildon and Southend-on-Sea.<br/><br/>The port will provide unrivalled shipping and logistics access to the south east of England, the ultimate destination for many of the goods imported to the UK. <br/><br/>* The Thames Gateway is an area of prime land stretching 70 kilometres (43 mi) east from inner east London on both sides of the River Thames. It has been designated a national priority for urban regeneration, taking advantage of the development opportunities realised by the completion of the High Speed 1 rail line.</p><p>Fast road and rail links will make London Gateway Port one of the UK’s most important distribution centres. Location advantages include:</p><ul><li>15 minutes from M25 motorway, London’s orbital motorway.</li><li>Location in the Thames Gateway, the UK's largest economic development programme, stretching for 40 miles along the Thames Estuary.</li><li>50 minutes by road from London Stansted Airport with direct access to 200 cargo destinations worldwide.</li><li>1 hour by road from London Gatwick and London Heathrow airports.</li><li>30 minutes by road from London Southend Airport.</li><li>Convenient access by road to Birmingham (2 hours 30 minutes) and Manchester (4 hours).</li><li>Rail freight terminals on site.</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Highly-automated port facilities </strong></p><p>London Gateway Port is being built on a 607 hectare site with a 2,700 metre long container quay. On completion, it will add an additional 3.5 million TEU (standard Twenty-foot Equivalent cargo Units) to the UK’s port capacity. Facilities include:</p><ul><li>Six deep sea berths with capability to handle the largest container ships in the world, ships that no UK port is currently able to accommodate.</li><li>Highly- automated and efficient port providing a significant reduction in the time ships spend in port.</li><li>Integration with Europe’s largest logistics park offering approximately 900,000 square metres (9.7 million square feet) for the distribution, manufacturing and high-tech sectors.</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Optimising supply chain management  </strong></p><p>London Gateway will offer global brands the opportunity to move away from conventional distribution methods by utilising river and short sea shipping routes.<br/><br/>By combining the various modes of transport with warehousing, manufacturing and distribution, London Gateway will offer the ultimate in what is known as “PortCentric” logistics. In this logistics strategy, the distribution centre is located at a port, rather than inland location, bringing companies closer to the markets they serve and decreasing freight miles.<br/><br/>25 to 30 percent of all freight will be transported by rail, as London Gateway will have a new rail hub with terminals in both the port and logistics park. As a result, businesses will benefit from more cost-effective supply chain operations.<br/><br/>The port is also working with London Southend Airport to provide businesses using London Gateway with the benefit of close proximity to a business-focused airport offering urgent airfreight delivery to Europe.<br/><br/>London Gateway is also located within easy reach of the other three London international airports at Stansted, Heathrow and Gatwick.</p><blockquote><p>“Not only will London Gateway have a significant impact on the regional economy, the new port and logistics park will also be of huge benefit to the country, as it will reshape UK supply chains for the better.” Simon Moore, CEO London Gateway Port</p></blockquote><p><strong>Greener supply chain model</strong></p><p>London Gateway offers a quicker, more reliable and greener way to transport goods to their destination compared with existing supply chain models. The port offers significant supply chain savings for global businesses with reduced transport costs created by having warehousing at the port of entry, closer to key UK consumer markets.<br/><br/>Analysts have estimated 65 million road freight miles every year will be saved, as many goods will no longer need to be transported from deep-sea ports to inland distribution centres.  Instead, goods will flow quickly and easily from London Gateway port to the logistics park before distribution directly to shops and homes.<br/><br/>London Gateway Port will allow shipping services direct access to London. Global brands will have access to 70 percent of the UK population who live within a 100 miles of London and to Europe, the UK’s biggest marketplace.<br/><br/><strong>Unrivalled logistics infrastructure</strong></p><p>London Gateway Port will offer an unrivalled logistical infrastructure for supply-chain reliant businesses, making it an ideal base for a warehousing operation, distribution depot, head office or branch office. Key advantages include:</p><ul><li>Essex has more than 1000 port and logistics companies, more than any other county in the East of England. </li><li>Thurrock provides the greatest concentration of logistics operations supporting London.</li><li>Almost 14,500 employees work in the Essex logistics sector across a range of disciplines including warehousing, transport, administration, call centres, technology and management.</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Planning for future growth</strong></p><p>The owners of London Gateway Port have estimated that the development will be worth more than £3bn to the UK economy. Work started in 2010 and the compete construction period is expected to last over a 10 to 15 year timescale.<br/><br/>On completion, 2000 people will be employed at the port, with a further 10,000 jobs being created at the nearby logistics park and twice as many indirectly.</p>